Shishio Tsukasa is a good guy...
and a murderer.
If we make weapons of science
before he takes notice, we win.
If he finds out first, we lose.
That's the kind of race this is.
Guns.
We're making gunpowder.
This is exhilarating.
Hakone.
If they make gunpowder,
I don't stand a chance.
I'm going to stop them
before Senku can make it.
Yuzuriha...
I should tell you about what
happened while you were petrified.
3,700 years ago, when I called
you to the camphor tree...
Hear me out, Yuzuriha.
For the past five years, I've...
What were you about to say that day?
Yuzuriha, for the whole time I was petrified,
I thought about finishing what I was saying.
For hundreds of years, thousands of years...
But here, in this stone world,
with nowhere to run, I wouldn't
feel right as a man telling you.
Sorry! I'm sure you have no
idea what I'm talking about...
No, I do.
We have to bring back civilization.
Once we save humanity,
will you let me finish what I was
saying 3,700 years ago, Yuzuriha?
Okay, got it.
We'll bring the world back.
I'm sure of it.
Good morning, world
Good Morning World!
How far have I walked?
Only the pain in my feet
Gives me a sense of the distance
The hope for a beautiful view
at the end of a long night
Is what keeps me going today
The mountains of the gods,
the palaces of green
The depths of the caves,
the ends of the deep blue sky
I'll go the full distance,
there are no limits
To the ends of the world
Good morning, world
Good Morning World!
Rid away the impossibility of the dark
An odyssey turning mythology
into the everyday
In this painstaking journey,
turning over every stone
We'll expand our world
Fire the Smoke Signal
We have the three materials
we need to make gunpowder.
We have them already?
All we need to do now is mix it.
It's time for our happy
gunpowder cooking session!
Kitchen
Ingredient number one for gunpowder...
Sulfur, which we can get
plenty of at this hot spring.
Number two...
Charcoal.
We can get all we need by burning wood.
And number three,
the last, but most difficult:
potassium nitrate.
It'll take a hell of a long time
to make this stuff, so...
Kukuku!
I've already made some to save us time!
I feel like I've heard the
word "nitrate" somewhere...
Nitric acid!
Miracle water!
You got it from that cave?
You're right for once, simpleton.
Ten billion points for you.
Potassium nitrate, sulfur,
and charcoal all go in the mix,
and a pinch of sugar as a secret ingredient
gives it a little more oomph.
This is glucose that I made from grapes.
Hey! My name is Mecha-Senku!
That recipe I just gave you is legit.
It can result in a real bomb.
So don't even think about trying it!
Finally, pound it until it's packed solid.
Pound it, huh?!
Leave the heavy lifting to me!
Are you sure that's a good idea?
You might be strong enough to
make it spark and go boom!
Like flint!
Nah, you won't get any sparks
by hitting stone with stone.
Really?
Oh, you're right.
Flint is more than just stone.
It needs to have metal in it to make sparks.
Hot springs,
Hot
Springs
volcanoes,
Volcanoes
Iron
Pyrite
iron pyrite...
Iron
Pyrite
Iron pyrite?!
P
l
u
s
Taiju's
OP
Strength
Wai—
No problem!
Our gunpowder cooking was a huge success!
I had no idea gunpowder was so powerful.
Yeah.
There've been plenty of
accidents where students
were experimenting with it
and got their limbs blown off.
It can easily be lethal.
We're going to attack
Tsukasa-kun with this?
No, we're going to make a deal.
Tsukasa isn't a mindless killer.
Taiju, remember what he
said when you went at him?
Let me get this straight.
You'll let me keep hitting
you and never fight back,
therefore, don't destroy the statues.
Is that right?
That's right!
I don't understand.
There's no deal being made here.
In other words, in the right circumstances,
we can negotiate with him.
As long as we have a gunpowder
weapon, we have leverage.
But if negotiations with
Tsukasa fall through,
then we'll have to...
If Senku has already made gunpowder,
I'll have to...
...kill him.
All right, it's gotten a lot weaker.
If Tsukasa's after us, there's a ten billion
percent chance he'll find us.
Senku-kun, Taiju-kun...
A smoke signal...
Tsukasa-kun?!
No, that's in the opposite direction.
Besides, Tsukasa has no reason
to reveal his location.
What is it, then?
A forest fire?
It's too well-timed to be a coincidence.
It was clearly raised in
response to our smoke.
You mean...
Yeah.
This is exhilarating.
There's someone else in this stone world.
More people?
We have to finish putting out the fire.
Oh, that's right.
No, hang on.
As far as they know, that explosion
could have been from a volcano.
We need to signal them even
more before they leave.
I see!
But if Tsukasa-kun is after us...
We'll be doing him the courtesy
of letting him know where we are.
The least logical part of me,
my gut, is talking to me.
If we start a fire now...
Which do I choose? Safety?
The future?
What do we do, Senku?
Put it out?
Or light it?
Light it!
Fire the smoke signal!
We're running out of gunpowder.
Throw in anything that'll burn!
Hang on! I'll go get some wood!
It's a double-edged smoke signal.
We're letting everyone in the
vicinity know where we are.
If Tsukasa knows about our
plan to make gunpowder...
Senku is trying to make gunpowder.
The shells told me as much.
There are four insanely
useful ways to use it.
Didn't I say three?
Senku hid one because he
thought I could be a threat.
Which means...
The fourth important use for sea shells is
weapons of science.
It's easy to imagine.
For example,
mass production of potassium nitrate,
which is used in gunpowder.
That's it.
Senku was already thinking ahead
to a future in which he'd
use gunpowder to fight me.
"If weapons of science enter the scene,
I won't be the most powerful anymore."
You look like you're about
to throw a tantrum, Tsukasa.
You could put it that way.
If you make weapons of science
and revive the older generations,
they'll begin fighting over
established interests,
and we'll be right back in a tainted world.
I don't mind getting my hands
dirty in order to stop that.
So now you have to kill
Science Man Senku here, huh?
America would be moved to tears
by your merciful death sentence.
Yeah. But first,
would you mind giving me the recipe
for the petrification revival fluid?
Sorry, but I'm not as merciful as you are.
I can only look at things logically.
I don't care one millimeter
what you do with that woman.
There are plenty of females around—
Don't try to negotiate, Senku.
You never buried Yuzuriha.
Your best move would have been
to bury Yuzuriha somewhere
far away while she was petrified.
That way, she'd never be taken hostage.
There's no way you couldn't have
thought of something that even I did.
But you didn't do it.
Was it for Taiju? Or for Yuzuriha?
No, it was for both of them.
You call yourself logical, but you
have friends that are precious to you.
I have plenty of admirers,
but I have no one I'd call precious.
That's why I win, Senku.
I actually appreciate that.
Washing my hair is a pain in this world.
Don't tell him, Senku-kun.
So long as he doesn't have the
recipe for the revival fluid,
Tsukasa-kun can't kill you.
I don't mind.
But you have to survive so that
you can secure everyone's future.
The revival fluid is a compound
of nitric acid and alcohol.
Filter the miracle water from the cave,
and mix it with alcohol that's been distilled
up to as close to 96% as you can get it.
The ratio is 30% miracle water to 70% alcohol.
If you're off by so much as a few percent,
the reaction won't happen,
so fine-tune it using a
petrified swallow feather.
Thank you, Senku.
I no longer have a reason to let you live.
This should be enough.
Three smoke signals!
They must be responding to the three
shots we fired with the gunpowder!
There's no mistake!
There are people!
Senku!
Yuzuriha!
Three.
If I let you live,
you would let civilization develop.
Will you promise that you won't do that?
What the hell are you talking about?
Why would I ever keep a promise like—
No, you would never lie.
Not to science.
Will you promise here and now, for all
eternity, that you'll abandon science?
If you do, I won't have
to kill you, Senku.
All right, next is Senku-kun.
I'm going to space.
An astronaut!
What I want to become
That's a great dream.
Well, when you grow up...
No, I'm going immediately.
Then again, I'm just a kid who doesn't
know the first thing about science.
I'm going to study
every last thing.
I'm going to try everything.
I can't help you.
But, Senku, if you're serious,
you can accomplish anything through
diligent application of science.
Used Cars
I'm sure Santa Claus will
give you the tools you need.
You can burn things with the point
of light from a magnifying glass.
What an adorable experiment.
Sand iron and aluminum foil are awesome!
The frying pan is melting
from the thermite reaction.
Adorable...?
The liquid oxygen for the injector boils off
ten billion percent at a normal temperature,
and it freezes when it's too cold.
I'll have to keep trying with ethanol
for a while until I switch to kerosene.
What's that?
It's an ablator.
The chamber will burn out if I don't use it.
Hello.
I need a Raspberry Pi, a transmitter
module, and this thing called a "gyro."
We'll use a good old Yagi
antenna for the receiver.
It's what they'd use for TVs.
Senku!
You said you'd try it with a light payload, right?
I had Ogawa Yuzuriha-san of the crafts
club make us three passengers.
It's seriously embarrassing,
having a doll of myself.
What are you even using these for?
It blew up at a really high altitude.
Failed again?!
Not entirely.
I'm going to space.
I'm going immediately.
You can accomplish anything through
diligent application of science.
Senku, I'd rather not
kill you if I can help it.
I'll ask you again.
Will you promise me, here and now,
that you'll abandon science?
I can't do that.
I thought that would be your answer.
What are you babbling about?
You were going to kill me at some
point, no matter how I'd answered.
To be on the safe side.
Perhaps.
Do it in one blow.
Making me bleed out forever
wouldn't be logical for either of us.
Don't worry.
I'll bust your cervical
nerve in a single blow.
You'll be knocked unconscious
instantly, and then you'll die.
I won't make you suffer.
I promise not to miss.
Taiju-kun...
Yuzuriha...
Senku!
Senku, if we'd met 3,700 years ago...
If we'd met before this planet
became a stone world...
You may have been my first friend.
Maybe.
Senku!
Maybe I don't know what to do
Hurry up, my mind is on the moon
Flying up to where the wind blew
In my hands awakens
The passion overflowing
Just wandering through this world
Your one shining pure
Could never be pierced
with a rusty knife
I'm burning like a fire gone wild
The moment an arrow
shot through my heart
The noise plaguing me was released
Everything was different
from that moment on
If I don't try, I'll never know
Why do flowers bloom?
Your voice echoes
Tell me why?
I just shouted to the sky
But you are no no no longer here,
that's right?
The life we confirmed that day
You can call it a fleeting
dream if you want
But I'll save you from a wounded today
Next Episode
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.